devops: DevOps is an approach to software development tha enables teams to build,test, and release software faster and more reliably by incorporating agile principles
and practices,such as increased automation and improved collaboration between development and operations teams. Development,testing, and deployment occur in both
agile and DevOps.Yet traditional agile stops short of operations, which is an integral part of DevOps.The goal of DevOps is to help bring together developers who write 
application software and operations who run the software in production. Also, to build and maintain the infrastructure where it runs.DevOps replaces the old approach
of development teams writing applications then throwing them over the wall to an operations team who deploys and manages the software with minimal visibility into how
it was developed.In a DevOps environment, developers and operations teams work side by side throughout the entire process of developing, deploying, and managing 
applications.

characteristics of devops: 
1-includes the operations team.
2-extends the focus to delivery and maintenance.
3-focuses more on test and delivery automation.
4-incorporates unplanned work common to operations teams.

agile:Agile is an iterative approach to project management and software development that focuses on collaboration, customer feedback, and rapid releases. 
It arose in the early 2000s from the software development industry, helping development teams react and adapt to changing market conditions and customer demands.
In an agile approach, some planning and design is done upfront, but the development proceeds in small batches and involves close collaboration with stakeholders. 
Changes are incorporated continuously and a usable version of a product is often released quicker compared to products developed through the waterfall methodology.
This provides many benefits, with arguably the most important being that if software doesn’t meet the needs or expectations of the customer, it  can be remediated in
real-time. 

characteristics of agiles:
1-emphasizes collaboration between developers and product management.
2-centers the flow of software from ideation to code completion.
3-emphasizes iterative development and small batches.
4-adds structure to planned work for developers. 